- [Narrator] All right, let's pick up from where had left.
We were actually looking at the steps for
server d application.
We will continue with some more in this light.
Let's take a look at the next step.
The next step is to add the JDBC driver JAR MySQL.
Now in our application we're going to use
the MySQL data base server.
Of course we're going to use JDBC API java based connectivity
to transact with the data base.
We need the driver JAR file for the respective data base.
That's essential, otherwise JDBC code wouldn't work.
I've already got that JAR downloaded on my desktop.
I'm just going to copy that and go to my workspace.
Go inside this project and paste it under the lift folder.
Once you do that, that wouldn't be enough.
You have to go in and add it to the build parts.
I'm going to right click on this project again.
Go to properties.
Go to the build part.
Of course go to the library step and this time
click on add JARs.
Once we do that, let's try first to the lift folder and
pick up the JAR file from there.
There we are.
Let's say OK.
Apply, and okay again.
So now you're all set to code the JDBC API on this project
because you have the driver connected JAR ready with you.
Let's see the next one.
Now we have to deploy and run the project on the server.
Right. Let's come back to Eclipse.
Our project is here.
Our server instance is ready.
Now we need to make them work together.
I'm going to right click on this project and choose the
option of run as, run on server.
Once I do that it is going to ask me which is the server
option do I need to choose?
In case you have multiple servers you need to choose
the appropriate option from this list.
I just have one server configured so I'm
just going to choose that.
I can also click on the check box so that I don't
have to repeat this process over.
Click on next.
Do you see that you project is available in the configured
pane because you're going to deploy it right now.
Let's click on finish.
Once we are done, the entire deployment activity that
happens for that project on the server is going to
be visible under the console view of Eclipse.
If you don't get to see this view you just have to again
go to window, show view, and there you are.
That's the option.
So when you click on it, this console view is
going to become visible.
Generally it opens up when you deploy the application.
Now, take a look at this activity trace.
The entire trace of the activity that happens on your
server console has to be a clean start-up.
If there are any exceptions coming out on your console
it essentially means that there are errors in your
deployment, which means you need to go and rectify those
errors and re-deploy your application.
This process will go on until you have
a clean start-up like this.
Do you see that the server said that it started up
in 41 milliseconds?
It completely deployed my project on it.
So now we are ready to actually start off with the
run of that application.
Right? So this is how it looks like.
Let's see the next step.
Now this is an important one.
We have to deploy the war external to Eclipse IDE.
Let's understand this point first.
Whenever the server deployed this project on itself,
what it essentially did is it actually constructed
a war file for this project.
When I say "war" I mean web archive.
Because that's the package that the term gets over
understands for the deployment process.
It cannot understand any other kind of package.
Now in order that that happens, since we are inside
Eclipse, Eclipse internally manages these things for us.
When you say "run as" run on server it will clearly go
and create a war and deploy it on that instance.
However, in your industry projects you have a lot of
environments that you work on.
One of them may be development and then this QA where
you actually give your project for testing, and there's
a Go Live which is your production environment.
Now in your QA or Go Live, or even for that matter the
staging environment you do not have the Eclipse IDE.
That's only specific to the development environment.
How are we going to deploy and host our project on
the server in the QA and in the Go Live environment?
This is what we need to understand, and that's
exactly this point is about.
Let's understand how are you going to deploy
your project outside Eclipse.
Let's go to Eclipse first and stop the server.
I'm going to open the command prompt.
From here I'm going to navigate to the Softwares folder
where my tomcat is residing.
Let's go there.
There we are.
We also need to navigate to the bin directory of
tomcat because bin is the place which has got all the
executable commands to start, stop,
de-bug your server et cetera.
Now we need a war file, we said, for the deployment.
How are we are we going to generate the war file?
Let's go to Eclipse and Eclipse has got a utility ready.
You right click on this project.
Click on the export option, and say that you want to
export to a war file.
Once you click this, say next, and you choose a
destination where this war file is going to be saved.
So let me save it to desktop right now.
Click on finish.
Now let's come to the (mumbles).
We are now going to inspect the contents of this war.
We want to extract that.
Let's open up with WinRAR.
That is how it looks like.
That's the root folder of your app, and under that you
see there is a css folder and an html folder.
So these are the web content files that we had prepared.
There's also META-INF and WEB-INF, and under WEB-INF you
have the classes which will store all your dot class files.
Under the lib you have all the JAR files that you may
have added, and web xml of (mumbles) deployment descriptor.
Now an important thing to note here is that you
may not be able to see all the servlet in the JSPAPI JARs
because we refer to them directly from the server folder.
Had you pasted all of them into the lib, they would
have been visible even here.
Please also note that the JAR files for servlets in
JSPs have been included locally in our project, which
are picked up from this machine.
However, if you want to transport this application from
one machine to another, then it would be best advisable
to go ahead and paste all the servlet and JSPI JARs
under the lib folder of your machine.
So that when you change the machine, the local part is not
going to produce any kind of conflict.
In a real life project, we always add all the dependencies,
which are the JAR files for servlets, JSP and any other
API that you may need to integrate with your application.
So make it a best practice to store all the JARs always
under the lib folder and then add them to the build
part of your project so that transportation on any
machine will never cause any issues.
Now, this is the context root folder of your app.
If you look at this entire war structure, it is a little
different from your actual project structure, which
is totally fine because this is how the war structure
looks like and this is what tomcat understands for
the entire deployment process.
So css and html come right immediate to the context root.
Then you have META-INF and WEB-INF.
All the related parts that you provide in your code are
with respect to this war structure, which is why it is
very important to understand this right now.
So once we are ready with the war, what we need to do is
we need to open the server software.
So this is how the server software structure looks like
and there's a web apps directory under that server.
When I click on it, this is the place where you're going to
put all your war files so that the server can pick
them up for deployment.
What I'm going to do now is, I'm just going to drop that
war file that we have under this web apps directory.
Let's take it and grab and put it there
under that directory.
Yeah.
Now that we have the war file dropped here, the only
thing that we need to do is we need to start the server,
and when the server starts this war file is automatically
going to be picked up for deployment.
Let's go back to work on mine prompt, and I'm going to
hit command which is called startup.bat.
It's a batch file which is going to start
your tomcat server.
I'm just going to hit enter and a tomcat window
will open up for you.
When that is done, if I maximize this you see that the
server has started up in so many milliseconds and
it has deployed you sample project dot war file.
So this is what happens when you want to deploy
a war file outside Eclipse IDE.
Generally on your testing and production environments
you have (mumbles) machines and you need to work with
a command prompt in order to deploy a war to the server.